Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing information in a computer so that it can be retrieved and used most productively. ...
Data structures are important for the following reasons: .
Data structures are used in almost every program or software system.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Following operations can be performed on the data structures:

1. Traversing

2. Searching

3. Inserting

4. Deleting

5. Sorting

6. Merging

1. Traversing- It is used to access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.

2. Searching- It is used to find out the location of the data item if it exists in the given collection of data items.

3. Inserting- It is used to add a new data item in the given collection of data items.

4. Deleting- It is used to delete an existing data item from the given collection of data items.

5. Sorting- It is used to arrange the data items in some order i.e. in ascending or descending order in case of numerical data and in dictionary order in case of alphanumeric data.

6. Merging- It is used to combine the data items of two sorted files into single file in the sorted form.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. The name of areas are:

· Compiler Design,

· Operating System,

· Database Management System,

· Statistical analysis package,

· Numerical Analysis,

· Graphics,

· Artificial Intelligence,

· Simulation
what is an Array?
A.An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
The length of an array is established when the array is created.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.An array is basic functionality provided by Java. ArrayList is part of collection framework in Java.
Therefore array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them.
what is LinkedList?
A.Java LinkedList class uses doubly linked list to store the elements.
It provides a linked-list data structure. It inherits the AbstractList class and implements List and Deque interfaces.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.The major difference between Array and Linked list regards to their structure. Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index. ...
While a linked list is data structure which contains a sequence of the elements where each element is linked to its next element.
what is queue?
A.Java Queue interface orders the element in FIFO(First In First Out) manner.
In FIFO, first element is removed first and last element is removed at last.
what is stack?
A.In computing, a stack is a data structure used to store a collection of objects. Individual items can be added and stored in a stack using a push operation.
Objects can be retrieved using a pop operation, which removes an item from the stack.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO (first-in, first-out) is an approach to handling program work requests from queues or stacks so that the oldest request is handled next.
LIFO (last-in, first-out) is an approach in which the most recent request is handled next and the
oldest request doesn't get handled until it is the only remaining request on the queue (or in the stack).
what is the order of complexity?
It is all about Time and Space Complexity.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A. I have no idea.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A. I have no idea.
what is tree in data structure?
A.In computer science, a tree is a widely used abstract data type (ADT)—or data structure implementing this ADT—that simulates a hierarchical tree structure,
with a root value and subtrees of children with a parent node, represented as a set of linked nodes.
what is graph in data structure?
A graph data structure consists of a finite (and possibly mutable) set of vertices or nodes or points,
together with a set of unordered pairs of these vertices for an undirected graph or a set of ordered pairs for a directed graph.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.There are several differences between HashMap and Hashtable in Java: Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications,
as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones. ... HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A: The major data structures used are as follows:

· RDBMS – Array (i.e. Array of structures)

· Network data model – Graph

· Hierarchical data model – Trees
How HashMap works in java?
A.HashMap in Java works on hashing principle.
It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key.
In hashing, hash functions are used to link key and value in HashMap.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.All array accesses are checked at run time; an attempt to use an index that is less than zero or greater than or equal to
the length of the array causes an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException to be thrown.
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one array into another array in Java.

  1. Manually
  2. Arrays.copyOf()
  3. System.arraycopy()
  4. Object.clone()
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.ArrayList and LinkedList both implements List interface and their methods and results are almost identical.
However there are few differences between them which make one better over another depending on the requirement.
What is DFS and BFS?
A.The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph.
They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.
What is Recursion?
A.Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem. A method that uses this technique is recursive.
Many programming problems can be solved only by recursion, and some problems that can be solved by other techniques are better solved by recursion.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.The data structure where data items are organized sequentially or linearly where data elements attached one after another is called linear data structure.
The data structure where data items are not organized sequentially is called non linear data structure.
What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Sorting is ordering a list of objects. We can distinguish two types of sorting.
If the number of objects is small enough to fits into the main memory, sorting is called internal sorting.
If the number of objects is so large that some of them reside on external storage during the sort, it is called external sorting. In this chapter we consider the following internal sorting algorithms

Bucket sort
Bubble sort
Insertion sort
Selection sort
Heapsort
Mergesort
Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


